Add info about the usage of Github Actions (#828)
kyma-project/community: docs/contributing/05-gh-actions.md

    - [zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions](#zgosalvezgithub-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions)
    - [ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue](#ahmadnassriaction-workflow-queue)
    - [autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check](#autotelicaction-wait-for-status-check)
    - [gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check](#gaurav-nelsongithub-action-markdown-link-check)
    - [slackapi/slack-github-action](#slackapislack-github-action)
  - [Not allowed GH Actions](#not-allowed-gh-actions)
    - [shmokmt/actions-setup-github-comment](#shmokmtactions-setup-github-comment)
    - [shmokmt/actions-setup-tfcmt](#shmokmtactions-setup-tfcmt)
    - [CondeNast/conventional-pull-request-action](#condenastconventional-pull-request-action)

## Introduction

Github Actions are a powerful tool to automate almost every task of the development cycle. The ecosystem of Github Actions is growing very fast and one can find a prepared Action for a lot of activities. But like all other usages of Open Source Software, Github Actions have to be handled carefully because an action is running external code on our code in our Github repositories.

## Restrictions of use

> The usage of external Github Actions is restricted centrally on Github.com organization level. Only Actions in the kyma-project org or approved external Actions are allowed. Actions created by Github or [verified creators](https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions&verification=verified_creator) are also allowed. The list of approved Github Actions can be found in the [Appendix A: Approved Github Actions](#appendix-a-approved-github-actions). Approved Actions are added by using the hash sign of the version commit to ensure that really the approved version of the Action is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of external GitHub Actions is restricted centrally on the `github.com` organization level. Only Actions in the kyma-project org or approved external Actions are allowed. Actions created by GitHub or [verified creators](https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions&verification=verified_creator) are also allowed. You can find the list of approved GitHub Actions in [Appendix A: Approved Github Actions](#appendix-a-approved-github-actions). Approved Actions are added by using the hash sign of the version commit to ensure that the really approved version of the Action is used.
```

![Github Actions policy](./assets/gh-actions-policies.png)

> Github Actions have read and write permissions on repositories but they are not allowed to create and merge pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions have `read` and `write` permissions on repositories but they are not allowed to create and merge pull requests.
```

![Github Actions permissions](./assets/gh-actions-peermissions.png)

> ## Github Actions Security Best Practices

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GitHub Actions Security Best Practices
```

> Even the usage of Github Actions is restricted there are some threats left. The responsibility to target this threats is on the developer using Github Actions. GitGuardian ([blog article on how to secure Github Actions](https://blog.gitguardian.com/github-actions-security-cheat-sheet/)) as well as Github itself ([Security hardening for Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/security-hardening-for-github-actions#using-third-party-actions)) are providing information on how to securely use Github Actions. Developers using Github Actions should make themselves aware about the security best practices in order to keep our code secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even though the usage of GitHub Actions is restricted, some threats remain. The responsibility to target these threats is on the developer using GitHub Actions. GitGuardian ([a blog article on how to secure GitHub Actions](https://blog.gitguardian.com/github-actions-security-cheat-sheet/)), as well as GitHub itself ([Security hardening for GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/security-hardening-for-github-actions#using-third-party-actions)), provide information on how to use GitHub Actions securely. Developers using GitHub Actions should make themselves aware of the security best practices to keep our code secure.
```

> **Github Actions Security Best Practices - Cheat Sheet from GitGuardian**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**GitHub Actions Security Best Practices - Cheat Sheet from GitGuardian**
```

> ![Github Actions Security Best Practices - Cheat Sheet](assets/GitHub-Actions-Security-Best-Practices_cheatsheet-1.png)

Reviewer: There's no such file in the assets folder.

Author: I added a commit containing the file

> ## Appendix A: Approved Github Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Appendix A: Approved GitHub Actions
```

### golangci/golangci-lint-action

This action runs the [golangci-lint](https://golangci-lint.run/) tool from GolangCI.

> - Repo: <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint-action>
> - Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/run-golangci-lint>
> - Repo `golangci-lint` tool: <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint-action>
- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/run-golangci-lint>
- `golangci-lint` repository: <https://github.com/golangci/golangci-lint>
```

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (15.08.2023)
  - [golangci-lint-action](./scorecard-ratings/golangci_golangci-lint-action.json): 7.2/10
  - [golangci-lint](./scorecard-ratings/golangci_golangci-lint.json): 6.3/10

> The tools (the action as well as the tool itself) are very popular and a large community is maintaining both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tools (the action and the tool itself) are very popular, and a large community maintains both.
```

#### Versions

- golangci/golangci-lint-action@639cd343e1d3b897ff35927a75193d57cfcba299
- golangci/golangci-lint-action@v3

### AbsaOSS/k3d-action

> - Repo: <https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k3d-action>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k3d-action>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/absaoss-k3d-action>

> The action contains a shell scripts which installs a K3D cluster on the runner. The [URL of the installation script of K3D](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k3d-action/blob/4e8b3239042be1dc0aed6c5eb80c13b18200fc79/run.sh#L27) is hardcoded in the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The action contains a shell script which installs a K3D cluster on the runner. The [URL of the installation script of K3D](https://github.com/AbsaOSS/k3d-action/blob/4e8b3239042be1dc0aed6c5eb80c13b18200fc79/run.sh#L27) is hardcoded in the script.
```

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [AbsaOSS/k3d-action](./scorecard-ratings/AbsaOSS_k3d-action.json): 4.8/10

#### Versions

- AbsaOSS/k3d-action@4e8b3239042be1dc0aed6c5eb80c13b18200fc79

### zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions

> - Repo: <https://github.com/zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/ensure-sha-pinned-actions>

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions](./scorecard-ratings/zgosalvez_github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions.json): 5.1/10

Einschätzung von Johannes Vogt:
> Hi Torsten, hab's mir angeschaut und der Code sieht vernünftig aus.
>
> Es werden alle ya?ml Dateien durchgegangen und geschaut, ob in irgendeinem unter dem Pfad jobs[...].uses oder jobs[...].steps[x].uses die sha Values die richtige Länge haben (40 für sha1 und 64 für sha256)... Mit einer allowlist kann man den Check für bestimmte Actions ignorieren.
>

> > Der Code wird mittels <https://github.com/vercel/ncc> in eine einzelne Datei kompiliert. Den Output hab ich mir nicht genauer angeschaut

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this passage? Why is it in German?

Author: This passage is the assessment result of an experienced JavaScript developer about the GitHub Action. I added it in German to keep the original content without changes because of the translation. Tbh, I want to keep it because it is a quote but I agree that the title should be in English and the purpose should be explained better. If it is okay for you, I will do this with the next release of this file (which comes soon).

Reviewer: Maybe for the time being you could only translate the phrase `Einschätzung von Johannes Vogt:` to `Assessment by Johannes Vogt:`. WDYT?

Author: @IwonaLanger Agree. Can you propose a change and I will accept it?

#### Versions

- zgosalvez/github-actions-ensure-sha-pinned-actions@f32435541e24cd6a4700a7f52bb2ec59e80603b1

### ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue

> - Repo: <https://github.com/ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/workflow-queue>

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue](./scorecard-ratings/ahmadnassri_action-workflow-queue.json): 6.5/10

#### Versions

- ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue@v1.1.5
- ahmadnassri/action-workflow-queue@0144da6a252d1986d817826d963ad3a9af1e7fdf

### autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check

> - Repo: <https://github.com/autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/wait-for-github-status-check>

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check](./scorecard-ratings/autotelic_action-wait-for-status-check.json): 4.8/10

#### Versions

- autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check@6556cf50c8fb6608412945382eae73581f56cbb4
- autotelic/action-wait-for-status-check@v1

### gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check

> - Repo: <https://github.com/gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/markdown-link-check>

> - Repo markdown-link-check: <https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `markdown-link-check` repository: <https://github.com/tcort/markdown-link-check>
```

> The action is running a shell script which installs and runs a NodeJS module called markdown-link-check. The [version of the NodeJS module is tagged](https://github.com/gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check/blob/46e442156b8161bfd0913357c7a411e0e610d2ad/entrypoint.sh#L11)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The action runs a shell script which installs and runs a Node.js module called markdown-link-check. The [version of the Node.js module is tagged](https://github.com/gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check/blob/46e442156b8161bfd0913357c7a411e0e610d2ad/entrypoint.sh#L11).
```

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check](./scorecard-ratings/gaurav-nelson_github-action-markdown-link-check.json): 4.4/10
  - [tcort/markdown-link-check](./scorecard-ratings/tcort_markdown-link-check.json): 4.6/10

#### Versions

- gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check@v1
- gaurav-nelson/github-action-markdown-link-check@d53a906aa6b22b8979d33bc86170567e619495ec

### slackapi/slack-github-action

> - Repo: <https://github.com/slackapi/slack-github-action>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/slackapi/slack-github-action>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/slack-send>

#### Ratings

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [slackapi/slack-github-action](./scorecard-ratings/slackapi_slack-github-action.json): 6.1 / 10

#### Versions

- slackapi/slack-github-action@e28cf165c92ffef168d23c5c9000cffc8a25e117 # v1.24.0,

> ## Not allowed GH Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Not allowed GitHub Actions
```

### shmokmt/actions-setup-github-comment

> The GH Action is only a wrapper to run a go tool called [github-comment](https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/github-comment) which is downloaded during runtime by the Action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GitHub Action is only a wrapper to run a go tool called [github-comment](https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/github-comment). It is downloaded during runtime by the Action.
```

> - Repo: <https://github.com/shmokmt/actions-setup-github-comment>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/shmokmt/actions-setup-github-comment>
```

- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/setup-github-comment>

> - Repo `github-comment` tool: <https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/github-comment>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `github-comment` repository: <https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/github-comment>
```

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [actions-setup-github-comment](./scorecard-ratings/shmokmt_actions-setup-github-comment.json): 3.5/10
  - [github-comment](./scorecard-ratings/suzuki-shunsuke_github-comment.json): 7.0/10

#### Versions

- shmokmt/actions-setup-github-comment@f415209aa2ee3eb9b3a864c7d5f8f712f1fb3cdf

### shmokmt/actions-setup-tfcmt

> Wrapper to run the go tool [tfcmt](https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/tfcmt) which is downloaded during the runtime of the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a wrapper to run the go tool [tfcmt](https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/tfcmt), which is downloaded during the runtime of the action.
```

> - Repo: <https://github.com/shmokmt/actions-setup-tfcmt>
> - Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/setup-tfcmt>
> - Repo `tfcmt` tool: <https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/tfcmt>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/shmokmt/actions-setup-tfcmt>
- Marketplace: <https://github.com/marketplace/actions/setup-tfcmt>
- `tfcmt` repository: <https://github.com/suzuki-shunsuke/tfcmt>
```

#### Rating

- openSSF Scorecard rating (16.08.2023)
  - [actions-setup-tfcmt](./scorecard-ratings/shmokmt_actions-setup-tfcmt.json): 3.4/10
  - [suzuki-shunsuke/tfcmt](./scorecard-ratings/suzuki-shunsuke_tfcmt.json): 6.8/10

### CondeNast/conventional-pull-request-action

> - Repo: <https://github.com/CondeNast/conventional-pull-request-action>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Repository: <https://github.com/CondeNast/conventional-pull-request-action>
```
